Hello Everyone.
Welcome to this section, which is about one dimensional deep.
In this section we learn what is one dimensional DP and we will see various problems associated with
it.
So firstly, let's understand what is one dimensional DP
It is nothing but, when our dimensional programming state.
So we talked about states.
Right, states have dependencies on each other.
So basically the recursive approach, the recursive part of dynamic programming.
When dynamic programming state contains only one independent variable, just remember this it's one
independent is an important term here and variable as well.
So, when it is only one independent variable, then it's 1D dimensional, one dimensional dynamic programming
problem.
For example, the best example is fibonacci numbers so in fibonacci numbers.
what we had is nth fibonacci numbers equals
fibonacci of till n-1 +
fibonacci till n-2
So here we can see the recursive.
The recursive function, right?
It has only one independent variable, which is N, it does not depend upon some ABC x, y, z right?
Just one independent variable cool, so.
Generally a one dimensional program, one dimensional, I will just say 1D DP, right a 1D DP problem
will always have one independent variable.
Let's take another example, a very basic example, which is of which is about factorial.
But how a recursive approach for factorial can be done here.
We can simply say that f(n) is equal to f(n-1) that n factorial is equals two n
minus one factorial X (into) n, correct?
This is another.
1D.
DP problem.
If I want to find the nth factorial number, I can simply write this recursion into my code.
I simply code it and optimize it by memoization, cool.
And let's talk about 3rd approach, 3rd example, which is, let's say, nth triangular number.
So you all must have heard about this.
So if you don't know it by the name, you will know it by its face.
So.
nth triangular number
is nothing but sum of first n natural numbers.
So why is it called triangular number?
so let me tell you.
So.
sum of one is one, sum till 2 is equal to this.
And this right sum till three is equal to, 6.
And then sosum till 4 is.
How much 10.
Right?
So I hope you are getting this point that this is the nth triangular number right? so the first triangular number is
one.
2nd triangular number is three, 3rd triangular number is six.
And the fourth triangular number is 10, so it is basically 1, 1+2
Or here we can say 1 + 2
Here we can say one plus three, one plus two plus three plus four.
What is the recursive approach for?
This can be very easy.
It is simple.
f(n) = f(n-1) + n
.
Again.
This is if I want to calculate this, I can use this recursive approach and memoize it again.
It becomes a simple 1D.
DP problem.
Cool.
So of course you all might be wondering.
That is a very simple formula about it, which is n(n+1)/2
So of course I know that too, but I'm just here explaining you what is 1D DP
And now, after this lecture, what we'll do is we'll do will solve some problems.
Right we'll solve some problems.
And I have handpicked those problems specially.
And those problems will tell you some various aspects of 1D DP
So.
There are optimization.
Optimization problems, optimization problems.
Cool, there are some combinatorial problems.
All of them will be related to 1D DP only
You don't have to worry about any other DP being involved here.
All of them will have one recursive relation.
All of them will have recursive relation with only one independent variable.
So.
And optimization problems.
Combinatorial problems will have some game theory problems as well in this.
Right.
And.
Yeah.
Also, we'll have some you know, there are some problems that if you start from a particular location,
you want to go to a particular location in an array.
by making some number of steps, how you solve it.
And lots, lots of varieties of problems.
Right.
So let's get going with it Thank You!